---
layout: post
title:  FOMO
date: 2023-04-09 21:56:10
description: "fear of missing out: it's effects, things and finally fulfillment"
tags: fomo
categories: mental-health
---
musings on a sunday evening

Sunday eve's are ripe for introspection: analyzing the week gone by to strategize for the hustle in the upcoming week.
As long as this cycle repeats, I think you are in the clear: mental health wise. Every so often, you might find yourself in a little funk
on a seemingly normal Sunday eve which leads to blog posts like this in my case

## This post is about fomo, fulfilment and funk

Unless you are living in a cave, you know what fomo is. What you might not know is the mental effect it can have on you.
We can use me as an example: you know for the greater good and also because I'm bad at fiction writing.

**A bit more context about me**: Usually a happy go-lucky person with loads of hobbies, social connections and drive in my life.
My weekend was packed with a concert, a birthday party, workouts, and a once-a-year Bring you own wheels event in SF! Highly recommend. See picture below! :) <TODO insert link>
Even after all this, I felt unhappy, empty, a bit hollow and finally just hopeless on where am I going on with my life.

## Where does FOMO come in?

I believe the reason for me is not FOMO but this sense of perfectionism. While

- O the places you would go, O the places you could have been (REGRET!)
- I'm a person of abundance: never thought about having less of anything; friends, money love, memories

Even after achieving that, I felt, I could on my next adrenaline trip and not care about things

- STEP 1: What is the problem? Is this an transient gust or a pertinent storm?


- What's happening? Is it the loss of a relationship that lead to all this?
- Is it the loss of a


## Step 1 The transience

Big believer: Snooze: if this is a problem for future me. We have enough problems in our lives: snoozing the correct ones is almost magical.

- My gut says no: it's been some time. I'm been so consumed in doing things that I feel it's catching up with me.
- The magnitude of the problem was concerning: I was not able to enjoy excellent things as of now which I wanted to!
- Needed for sustainable innovation?
- Feeling disassociated as fuck! what the hell is this


## Step 2: The drive to correct things

- Identify the problem
- There are two top candidates: it's FOMO or perfectionism
- fear of missing perfectionism: FOMP? dadlike-catchy
- Regret over relationship loss/not heading somewhere professionally/feeling the getting older part/ not getting enough matches on a dating app
/ missing out on social events that i would have attened if I was with her/ not having a crew to chit chat and party all the time, my roommate a genius and a asweetheart but felt a bit empty.
- I realize how much of a social person I'm. Much needed on social **validation** to feel good about myself.
- I definitely feel that SV is a bit part of things that affect me: praise, recognition, non abandonemnt, etc



## Perfectionism:

The mental belief that everything has to be perfect all the time. It becomes an hindrance for you to enjoy things if one aspect of your life is not where you would have wanted it to be.
 ++ Dating life took a hit this January: more on this later but yeah, I ended a relationship which I thought was quite promising. I don't think I've fully recovered from the regret of doing so. It was suppose to be perfect and the it ended: was not feeling correctly. I've talked long and hard about it: therapy and everything and I feel I made the right decision at the moment but miss whatevery there was going on. It's funny how stability and freedom interplat in ones values: if I had to give one idea of what to take care: figure out what is important for you more and stick with it across things.

 I wasn't happy: either through manifestation or through the actions of my ex-partner: nobody can say since it is all perception. Even after all this time though, I miss her. I miss the being with her. I miss the companionship that she gave even if it was annoying at first

 What were the things that were almost good enough but then not good enough altogether?

 - She took me to great events. Our sense of adventure, social queues were on point. we shared a decent chunk of friends
 - She was extremely attractive
 - She did take care of me and did little things in her own ways
 - She gave long hugs
 - She and I were quite aligned professionally and with those ambitions

 CONS
 - I didn't feel loved at all. I felt that there were times, nobody was looking out for me in that relationship
 - I felt that I'm stuck
 - I felt that I was going in a direction that wasn't the best of me. I was changing in ways that I wouldn't want to change in life.
 - she was emotionally too dependent on  me
 - She was emotionally tdraining
 - She priortized other people more than our relationship




###  FOMO -
Mark Manson (my all time mental health MVP) wrote this great article on FOMO.  <TODO insert link>

FOMO is motivated by not what you want to gain but what you've loose

## Self reliant on my happiness

- The art of happniess: Instead of focussing on what you want. focus on what you can give to otheres
- Instead of pursuing happiness, let it be a an inherent choice you consicouly make: aware that at each moment you can choose to be happy
- Instead of thinking about the things that could be, breathe in and focus on the here and the now
- Cut down on passive entertainement: this sense of consuming things
- Create stuff, be vulnerable and true to your own self.
- Journal and write and other things. The step is to just show up as much as possible to the best extenst there is. The 80:20 rule
